# Predicting-building-types-using-OpenStreetMap
Problem Statement:
 Having accurate building information is paramount for a plethora of applications, including humanitarian efforts, city planning, scientific studies, and navigation systems. While volunteered geographic information from sources such as OpenStreetMap (OSM) has good building geometry coverage, descriptive attributes such as the type of a building are sparse. To fill this gap, this study proposes a supervised learning-based approach to provide meaningful, semantic information for OSM data without manual intervention. We present a basic demonstration of our approach that classifies buildings into either residential or non-residential types for three study areas: Fairfax County in Virginia (VA), Mecklenburg County in North Carolina (NC), and the City of Boulder in Colorado (CO). The model leverages (i) available OSM tags capturing non-spatial attributes, (ii) geometric and topological properties of the building footprints including adjacent types of roads, proximity to parking lots, and building size. The model is trained and tested using ground truth data available for the three study areas. The results show that our approach achieves high accuracy in predicting building types for the selected areas. Additionally, a trained model is transferable with high accuracy to other regions where ground truth data is unavailable. The OSM and data science community are invited to build upon our approach to further enrich the volunteered geographic information in an automated manner.
Link to the research paper: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-022-24263-w 
